tiflash: add the maintain.md doc (#2189)
pingcap/docs: reference/tiflash/maintain.md

---
title: Maintain a TiFlash Cluster
summary: Learn common operations when you maintain a TiFlash cluster.
category: reference
---

# Maintain a TiFlash Cluster

> This document describes common operations when you maintain a TiFlash cluster, including checking the version, node logout, troubleshooting, critical logs, and a system table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes how to perform common operations when you maintain a TiFlash cluster, including checking the TiFlash version, taking TiFlash nodes down, and troubleshooting TiFlash. This document also introduces critical logs and system tables of TiFlash.
```

## Check the TiFlash version

There are two ways to check the TiFlash version:

- If the binary file name of TiFlash is `tiflash`, you can check the version by executing the `./tiflash version` command.

    However, to execute the above command, you need to add the directory path which includes the `libtiflash_proxy.so` dynamic library to the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` environment variable. This is because the running of TiFlash relies on the `libtiflash_proxy.so` dynamic library.

    For example, when `tiflash` and `libtiflash_proxy.so` are in the same directory, you can first switch to this directory, and then use the following command to check the TiFlash version:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    LD_LIBRARY_PATH=./ ./tiflash version
    ```

> - Check the TiFlash version by referring to the TiFlash log. For the log path, see the [logger] part in [Configure the `tiflash.toml` file](/reference/tiflash/configuration.md#configure-the-`tiflash.toml`-file). For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check the TiFlash version by referring to the TiFlash log. For the log path, see the `[logger]` part in [the `tiflash.toml` configuration file](/reference/tiflash/configuration.md#configure-the-`tiflash.toml`-file). For example:
```
The anchor link is wrong. Please correct it by referring to the PingCAP documentation style guide. @toutdesuite

    ```
    <information>: TiFlash version: TiFlash 0.2.0 master-375035282451103999f3863c691e2fc2
    ```

> ## Logout a TiFlash node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Take a TiFlash node down
```
`take nodes down` is an expression used more commonly in our technical documents and it has more search results in Google. Please update this expression in other places (if any). @toutdesuite

> Take the following steps to logout a TiFlash node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps below to take a TiFlash node down:
```

---
title: Maintain a TiFlash Cluster
summary: Learn common operations when you maintain a TiFlash cluster.
category: reference
---

# Maintain a TiFlash Cluster

This document describes how to perform common operations when you maintain a TiFlash cluster, including checking the TiFlash version, taking TiFlash nodes down, and troubleshooting TiFlash. This document also introduces critical logs and a system table of TiFlash.

## Check the TiFlash version

There are two ways to check the TiFlash version:

- If the binary file name of TiFlash is `tiflash`, you can check the version by executing the `./tiflash version` command.

    However, to execute the above command, you need to add the directory path which includes the `libtiflash_proxy.so` dynamic library to the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` environment variable. This is because the running of TiFlash relies on the `libtiflash_proxy.so` dynamic library.

    For example, when `tiflash` and `libtiflash_proxy.so` are in the same directory, you can first switch to this directory, and then use the following command to check the TiFlash version:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    LD_LIBRARY_PATH=./ ./tiflash version
    ```

> - Check the TiFlash version by referring to the TiFlash log. For the log path, see the `[logger]` part in [configure the `tiflash.toml` file](/reference/tiflash/configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file). For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check the TiFlash version by referring to the TiFlash log. For the log path, see the `[logger]` part in [the `tiflash.toml` file](/reference/tiflash/configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file). For example:
```
Delete `configure` so the sentence is complete.

    ```
    <information>: TiFlash version: TiFlash 0.2.0 master-375035282451103999f3863c691e2fc2
    ```

## Logout a TiFlash node

> Logouting a TiFlash node differs from [Scaling in the TiFlash node](/reference/tiflash/scale.md#scale-in-tiflash-node) in that the logout doesn't remove the node from TiDB Ansible; instead, it just safely shutdown the process.

Author: The reference anchor is not finalized because `scale.md` is not merged

Reviewer 2: Please take a look at [L90](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/2184/files#diff-23314ad704dd3050d84983065e6c7d7bR90). The anchor is decided: `#scale-in-a-tiflash-node`.

> Taking a TiFlash node down differs from [Scaling in a TiFlash node](/reference/tiflash/scale.md#scale-in-a-tiflash-node) in that the former doesn't remove the node from TiDB Ansible; instead, it just safely shutdown the process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Taking a TiFlash node down differs from [Scaling in a TiFlash node](/reference/tiflash/scale.md#scale-in-a-tiflash-node) in that the former doesn't remove the node in TiDB Ansible; instead, it just safely shuts down the TiFlash process.
```

Follow the steps below to take a TiFlash node down:

> **Note:**
>
> After you take the TiFlash node down, if the number of the remaining nodes in the TiFlash cluster is greater than or equal to the maximum replicas of all data tables, you can go directly to step 3.

> 1. For a TiDB server, if the number of replicas of tables is greater than or equal to that of the remaining TiFlash nodes in the cluster, execute the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If the number of replicas of tables is greater than or equal to that of the remaining TiFlash nodes in the cluster, execute the following command on those tables in the TiDB client:
```

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    alter table <db-name>.<table-name> set tiflash replica 0;
    ```

> 2. To ensure TiFlash replicas of related tables are removed, see [View the Table Replication Progress](/reference/tiflash/use-tiflash.md#view-the-table-replication-progress). If you cannot view the replication progress of the related tables, it means that the replicas are removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. To ensure that the TiFlash replicas of these tables are removed, see [View the Table Replication Progress](/reference/tiflash/use-tiflash.md#view-the-table-replication-progress). If you cannot view the replication progress of the tables, it means that the replicas are removed.
```

> 2. To ensure that the TiFlash replicas of these tables are removed, see [View the Table Replication Progress](/reference/tiflash/use-tiflash.md#view-the-table-replication-progress). If you cannot view the replication progress of the related tables, it means that the replicas are removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. To ensure that the TiFlash replicas of these tables are removed, see [View the Table Replication Progress](/reference/tiflash/use-tiflash.md#view-the-table-replication-progress). If you cannot view the replication progress of the related tables, it means that the replicas are removed.
```
The anchor is invalid. Please confirm again. @toutdesuite

> 3. Input the `store` command into [pd-ctl](/reference/tools/pd-control.md) (the binary file in `resources/bin` in the tidb-ansible directory) to view the `store id` of the TiFlash node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Input the `store` command into [pd-ctl](/reference/tools/pd-control.md) (the binary file is in `resources/bin` of the tidb-ansible directory) to view the `store id` of the TiFlash node.
```

4. Input `store delete <store_id>` into `pd-ctl`. Here `<store_id>` refers to the `store id` in step 3.

> 5. When the corresponding `store` of the node disappeared, or when `state_name` is changed to `Tomestone`, shutdown the TiFlash process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. When the corresponding `store` of the node disappears, or when `state_name` is changed to `Tomestone`, stop the TiFlash process.
```
In very few cases we use the past tense in our technical documents. Please read the Google Developer Style Guide for reference.

> **Note:**
>

> > If you don't cancel all tables replicated to TiFlash before all TiFlash nodes in a cluster stop running, you need to manually delete the replication rule in PD. Or you cannot successfully take the TiFlash node down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you don't cancel all tables replicated to TiFlash before all TiFlash nodes stop running, you need to manually delete the replication rule in PD. Or you cannot successfully take the TiFlash node down.
```

>
> To manually delete the replication rule in PD, send the `DELETE` request `http://<pd_ip>:<pd_port>/pd/api/v1/config/rule/tiflash/<rule_id>`. `rule_id` refers to the `id` of the `rule` to be deleted.

## TiFlash troubleshooting

> This section describes some common questions of TiFlash, the reasons, and the solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes some commonly encountered issues when using TiFlash, the reasons, and the solutions.
```

> ### TiFlash replica is always in an unusable state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### TiFlash replica is always unavailable
```

> This is because TiFlash is in the exception status caused by the configuration error or the environment problems. You can take the following steps to identify the problem component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because TiFlash is in an abnormal state caused by configuration errors or environment issues. Take the following steps to identify the faulty component:
```

> 1. Check whether PD enables the `Placement Rules` feature (to enable the feature, see the step 2 of [Add a TiFlash component in an existing TiDB Cluster](/reference/tiflash/deploy.md#add-a-TiFlash-component-in-an-existing-TiDB-cluster):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check whether PD enables the `Placement Rules` feature (to enable the feature, see the step 2 of [Add a TiFlash component in an existing TiDB Cluster](/reference/tiflash/deploy.md#add-a-TiFlash-component-in-an-existing-TiDB-cluster):
```
This anchor is wrong too. Please read our [link style guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1b6ZhZD33OoM8AacpKksGGSuxJWReLkNnSt8eSc1kTXc/edit?ts=5c9c682e#heading=h.xy6k1sq6eh08) carefully!

    ```shell
    echo 'config show replication' | /path/to/pd-ctl -u http://<pd-ip>:<pd-port>
    ```

    The expected result is `"enable-placement-rules": "true"`.

2. Check whether the TiFlash process in the operation system is working correctly using `UpTime` of the TiFlash-Summary monitor panel.

3. Check whether the TiFlash proxy status is normal through `pd-ctl`.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    echo "store" | /path/to/pd-ctl -u http://<pd-ip>:<pd-port>
    ```

    If `store.labels` includes information such as `{"key": "engine", "value": "tiflash"}`, it refers to the TiFlash proxy.

4. Check whether `pd buddy` can print the logs correctly (the value of `log` in the [flash.flash_cluster] configuration item of the log path, is by default the `tmp` directory configured by the TiFlash configuration file).

5. Check whether the value of `max-replicas` in PD is less than or equal to the number of TiKV nodes in the cluster. If not, PD cannot replicate data to TiFlash:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    echo 'config show replication' | /path/to/pd-ctl -u http://<pd-ip>:<pd-port>
    ```

    Reconfirm the value of `max-replicas`.

> 6. Check whether the remaining disk space of the machine (where `store` of the TiFlash node is) is sufficient. By default, when the remaining disk space is less than 20% of the `store` capacity (which is controlled by the `low-space-ratio` parameter), PD cannot schedule data to TiFlash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Check whether the remaining disk space of the machine (where `store` of the TiFlash node is) is sufficient. By default, when the remaining disk space is less than 20% of the `store` capacity (which is controlled by the `low-space-ratio` parameter), PD cannot schedule data to this TiFlash node.
```

### TiFlash query time is unstable, and error log prints many `Lock Exception` messages

> This is because large amounts of data are written to the cluster, which leads to the situation that the TiFlash query encounters a lock and requires query retry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because large amounts of data are written to the cluster, which causes that the TiFlash query encounters a lock and requires query retry.
```

> You can set the query timestamp to one second earlier in TiDB (for example, `set @@tidb_snapshot=412881237115666555;`). This makes less TiFlash queries encounter a lock and mitigate the risk of unstable query time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set the query timestamp to one second earlier in TiDB (for example, `set @@tidb_snapshot=412881237115666555;`). This makes less TiFlash queries encounter a lock and mitigates the risk of unstable query time.
```

> You can set the query timestamp to one second earlier in TiDB (for example, `set @@tidb_snapshot=412881237115666555;`), to reduce the possibility that TiFlash query encounters a lock; thereby mitigating the risk of unstable query time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set the query timestamp to one second earlier in TiDB (for example, `set @@tidb_snapshot=412881237115666555;`). This makes less TiFlash queries encounter a lock and mitigate the risk of unstable query time.
```

> ### Partial queries return `Region Unavailable`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Some queries return the `Region Unavailable` error
```

> If the load pressure in TiFlash is so heavy that TiFlash data replication falls behind. Some queries might return error message `Region Unavailable`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the load pressure on TiFlash is too heavy and it causes that TiFlash data replication falls behind, some queries might return the `Region Unavailable` error.
```

> In this case, you can share the pressure by adding TiFlash nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, you can balance the load pressure by adding more TiFlash nodes.
```

### Data file corruption

Take the following steps to handle the data file corruption:

1. Refer to [Take a TiFlash node down](#take-a-tiflash-node-down) to take the corresponding TiFlash node down.
2. Delete the related data of the TiFlash node.
3. Redeploy the TiFlash node in the cluster.

## TiFlash critical logs

| Log Information | Log Description |
|---------------|-------------------|
| [ 23 ] <Information> KVStore: Start to persist [region 47, applied: term 6 index 10] | Data starts to be replicated (the number in the square brackets at the start of the log refers to the thread ID |

> | [ 30 ] <Debug> CoprocessorHandler: grpc::Status DB::CoprocessorHandler::execute() | `Handling DAG request` refers to that TiFlash starts to handle a Coprocessor request |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [ 30 ] <Debug> CoprocessorHandler: grpc::Status DB::CoprocessorHandler::execute() | Handling DAG request, that is, TiFlash starts to handle a Coprocessor request |
```

> | [ 30 ] <Debug> CoprocessorHandler: grpc::Status DB::CoprocessorHandler::execute() | `Handle DAG request done` refers to that TiFlash finishes a Coprocessor request |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [ 30 ] <Debug> CoprocessorHandler: grpc::Status DB::CoprocessorHandler::execute() | Handling DAG request done, that is, TiFlash finishes handling a Coprocessor request |
```
